>> Good morning everybody.
So, many Cake fans out there?
>> Yeah!
[ Applause and Cheers ]
>> Well, hope you guys enjoyed the concert last night.
So my name is Kjell Bronder.
I'm an engineer on the Podcast Producer Team, and we're
going to be talking about Deploying Podcast Producer today.
So as you've probably learned this week,
there's really 3 pieces to Podcast Producer.
There's the capture piece, processing, and delivery.
And today we're going to focus on the 2 last ones,
on how you can best set up and all the best practices
for setting up the best processing grid possible.
And then we're going to spend the second half of
the presentation talking about the Podcast Library
and how you can customize it for your own needs.
For the first part, I'm going to bring up my colleague,
George Cook, who's a consulting engineer with Apple,
and he's going to go through some of the Best
Practices of Deploying Podcast Producer for you.
So please welcome George Cook.
[ Applause ]
>> Thanks, Kjell.
So welcome everyone.
I'm a Consulting Engineer in Apple Education
Division, and I'm really happy to be here today
to present to all of you Podcast Producer.
But first, how many folks here were at the bash last night?
So thank you for making it to a
9 a.m. session, first of all.
And for those that didn't come to the bash last
night, well, I recorded it and I put it up on the web.
Hold on a second, that's exactly one of the
things that Podcast Producer was designed for.
It was designed so that you can
consistently take that content, present it,
and distribute it to your target audience.
And this is something that we see in education, this is
a need that Podcast Producer is really helping to fill.
Today we're going to talk about 3 critical
components of Podcast Producer deployment.
We're going to start with a Shared File System.
So the Shared Filed System is really
the heart of Podcast Producer.
The decisions you make when you deploy the Shared File
System are critical in determining the scalability
of your deployment, high availability
of your deployment, et cetera.
Next, we're going to talk about the Media
Processing and Encoding engine for Podcast Producer.
This is the brain of Podcast Producer.
And we're going to talk about how you can best deploy that.
And then Kjell and Eric will come up and join us to talk
about the content delivery component of Podcast Producer.
Based on Atom and RSS standards, a really exciting
new feature of Snow Leopard is the Podcast Library.
Because this is so important, we are going to cover
that in-depth in the second half of this session.
But there's one thing missing from
this picture and that's you.
So I want to start off by talking a little
bit about Podcast Producer 1.0 Deployments.
On the business side, there are hundreds of thousands of
podcasts available on iTunes Music Store in a directory.
All that's available to anybody
that wants to download that content.
There's also a lot of private use of podcasting in business,
and the example I'm going to use today is for BBC America.
BBC America has a challenge.
They need to get content out for editorial review
so that editors either onsite or offsite can review
that content, comment on it, and approve that content.
So we're going to take a look at their deployment.
I'm really thrilled to have worked with many education
institutions on Podcast Producer deployments in education.
And in fact, we recently hosted regional
conferences along with MacLearning.org.
So MacLearning.org organized these conferences.
They are held across the country, and you saw an example
if you came to one of the other Podcast Producer sessions,
when NYU got up and talked about their deployment.
We're going to take a look at another deployment.
The exiting thing happening in education
is that there's a real change happening,
and digital content is really a catalyst in that change.
And at these conferences, our customers got up and
did presentations like this and talked to their peers
about how content is being used by
students to produce their own content.
How content is being distributed any place,
any time with capabilities like iTunes U.
And all of this is very exciting and it's an
area that is fomenting change in education
and it's really fun to work in this area.
So let's talk about these deployments,
starting with BBC America.
So BBC America is a large postproduction
facility in New York City.
Like many large production facilities,
they are using Final Cut Studio.
They have an Xsan deployed.
And to organize their content and to collaborate
in work groups, they are using Final Cut Server.
However, they had 2 challenges.
These reviewers, these key decision
makers that need to review this content,
sometimes they're not in the facility physically.
The other thing that's a challenge for many
postproduction environments is viewing the content in a form
that their actual audience will view it in.
And Podcast Producer helped address both of these needs.
So with Podcast Producer, they're taking content
from their video postproduction environment
for publishing it via Final Cut
Server into Podcast Producer.
That content is then distributed for mobile
clients any place any time, iPhone, iPod Touch,
and also to HDTVs that are in reviewers'
homes or in their remote offices,
so that they can actually view the content using the
same experience, the same type of visual experience
that they're actual audience will view the content in.
So this is great and they were able to do this without
any crazy customization or expensive solutions.
And this is how their system works.
Final Cut Server has this ability to run external
scripts transparently from the graphical interface.
So they're leveraging that capability.
It also allows you to pass variables.
Final Cut Server is very rich in applying
metadata to Final Cut projects and media assets.
So they take those-- that metadata
and they pass it into these scripts.
And they also have the option to leverage Compressor.
So they use a Compressor cluster, in their case,
to time code, visually time code this content.
In that way a reviewer can say
specifically at a specific piece
of time code there was an issue that
they would like to have changed.
This is what their submission script looks like.
It's very simple.
And there are 2 highlighted areas here.
They are pulling out some metadata from Final Cut Server,
and they're using that to post to a specific wiki.
So they're-- that allows them to
use one Podcast Producer workflow,
but post it to a specific wiki
that's associated with that project.
That way these key decision makers can
use the wiki to comment on that content,
to add their comments, and to approve that content.
On the Podcast Producer side inside of the
workflow, they are just taking that value coming
from their production environment and using that
to drive which wiki this content is posted to.
So this is a very powerful example that shows you very
simple integration between a postproduction workflow
into Podcast Producer and ultimately to
this audience of key decision makers.
Next, we're going to take a look at North Carolina State.
They were one of the institutions that presented
academics, in this case they presented at Duke University.
And they're deployment of Podcast Producer
is very much a canonical deployment.
They began with Open Directory.
They wanted to integrate the services that Mac OS X Server
provides with their campus authentication infrastructure.
So they did this by installing Open Directory
Master and then they piloted Podcast Producer.
They set up a Podcast Producer server and try it out.
This is what many institutions do.
They start off with a single server.
It worked really well, so they decided to deploy
a cluster to support their media processing needs.
So they deployed Xgrid and tied all those
systems into an Xsan clustered file system.
This allows them to scale their system up over time
to meet their growing needs in terms of capacity.
They also did something that I always recommend my
customers do and they set up a Development and Test System.
This allows them to develop new workflows
and test them before they go into production.
It allows them to deploy new versions of software
This is really important in a mission critical environment
where you're delivering educational
content to a large audience.
In their facility, they currently have
29 classrooms outfitted for capture.
These systems are Mac minis bound securely to Podcast
Producer and they're capturing off of the projector loop.
So they use a VGA capture device to capture
everything that's being deployed on the projector,
whether it's a document camera,
a Windows notebook, or a MacBook.
This has provided them with the flexibility to outfit
all of these classrooms in a very inexpensive way to get
that content, present it as they want it presented
to their target audience and facilitate this change
in education of any place, any time learning.
Before we get into the meat of this, of my part of
the presentation, I thought it was important to go
through a little checklist of factors
you need to consider for your deployment.
>> Now first of all is how much content.
How much content are you going to be
submitting into your Podcast Producer system?
In the case of North Carolina State,
for example, they have 29 classrooms.
They-- each one is capturing content
and submitting into the system.
How regularly are they being used for that capacity?
BBC, on the other hand, they're coming
out of a video production workflow.
How many of these digital dailies, shorts and full blown
productions are doing and what's the length of that content.
So, how much content are they actually
submitting into the system.
What about this branding and dual source picture in
a picture, all these great effects that we now can do
in Podcast Producer automatically, what are
you going to use in your actual environment?
And how many versions are you going to encode?
Are you going to create a version for Apple
TV, an iPod version, an audio only version?
All of those factors are really important in determining
your computing grid and your Shared File System.
This next set of questions are related to really
to your ingest network and your delivery network.
So how would content-the content be captured?
Are you going to be binding this camera agents like North
Carolina State or coming out of a production workflow
in a custom way like BBC, or perhaps you're going to
have ad hoc capture from anywhere on a 3G network.
That has implications on how you design
the content ingest side of your network.
Where is that content going to be submitted
from, on campus, for instance at NC State,
all those Mac Minis are tied into a 100-megabit network.
They're wired into the network, so they
have a great path back to those servers.
Again, network capacity needs to
be factored in to your deployment.
And on the delivery side, what's the size of your audience?
Are they on campus, on a college campus?
Are they distributed around the world?
The size of your audience needs to be
factored in in terms of your delivery network.
And where is the audience, again,
local, remote, where are they?
So those are factors to consider and
the main point here is to plan ahead.
You need to plan ahead by factoring those
things in before you actually deploy
So now let's get into deployment.
And we're going to start here with the discussion
of the Shared File System for Podcast Producer.
There are really 3 choices for Shared File System.
The first is all-in-one.
This is where all the services run on one server.
The new Xserve has a great new capability.
You can boot the OS from a solid state drive and you can
configure these 3 drives in it with hardware RAID to deliver
that very high performance file system for Podcast Producer.
This is a great setup for an all-in-one configuration.
And this would typically be used in a pilot or in
a development system or for smaller implementation.
If you're a small business and you need to do, you know, a
few podcasts a day, this is quite adequate for that purpose.
If your needs grow and you have a lot of content
you produce then you might want to add RAID.
So, Apple has partnered with Promise to
deliver a fully supported RAID solution
that works extremely well at Podcast Producer.
In this case, we're going to fully populate this RAID.
We're going to use 7 drives in a RAID 5
configuration and another 7 drives in RAID 5.
And perhaps, we create a RAID 50 out of these P2
LUNs, and then we have a couple of hot spares.
That way if a drive fails, the system will
automatically rebuild the RAID without user interaction.
This configuration is actually outlined and we have
scripts to configure your RAID on our support site.
So that's the all-in-one configuration.
Chances are, if you're adding that kind of storage,
you're probably going to have a fair amount
of processing that you're going to be doing.
So it's really easy in Snow Leopard to go
from this all-in-one configuration to NFS.
In fact when you create an all-in-one, it
automatically creates the NFS infrastructure you need
to add additional systems.
All you have to do is bind those systems to the directory.
They automatically mount the NFS file system,
and you're ready then to add extra nodes
that will increase your media processing
and encoding capacity.
You can also add additional delivery
nodes to support a larger audience.
So NFS is a great configuration for the
medium-sized Podcast Producer deployment.
And finally, Xsan.
So Xsan is what North Carolina State
deployed and this is the best configuration
for a highly scalable Podcast Producer deployment.
Xsan is a clustered file system.
In Xsan, you have redundancy throughout the system,
so high availability, multiple metadata controllers,
make that Shared File System much
more reliable, multiple paths,
Fibre Channel paths to the data, again increase reliability.
Connected to that Xsan Shared File System, you now have
your Podcast Producer Servers, your media processing
and encoding systems, and your
content archive and delivery systems.
So Xsan is the best choice for highly-scalable deployment.
Do that, you connect your camera machines, your
ad hoc agents and, of course, your clients.
So those are the 3 basic choices.
And let's just go through an analysis of
why you might choose one over the other.
Well obviously if you want to deploy a single server,
you use the all-in-one configuration,
that's the single server deployment.
Another new feature in Snow Leopard is Express
Setup or a setup assistant that gives you--
let's you choose express or standard setup.
With the all-in-one and NFS configuration, you don't have
to have a SAN in place before you make that configuration,
so it's really easy to set up Podcast Producer.
If you want to use direct attached
storage, whether it's right in the Xserve
or via a Promise RAID that's direct
attached, again, the all-in-one
and NFS configurations are what you want to use for that.
And then finally, if you want to scale this in terms
of media processing and encoding, you need Xgrid,
you need multiple systems, well that be either NFS or Xsan.
So, this begs the question of why
would you ever choose Xsan.
Well the first reason is high availability.
As I mentioned before, Xsan has built-in high availability.
With Xsan you have this cluster file
system, multiple paths for the data.
You have a very reliable clustered file system.
In addition, when you deploy on Xsan, we're
going to talk more about how Podcast Producer
and the grid also support high availability.
Another feature of Xsan is the ability to take your storage
and allocate different parts of it for different purposes.
For example, very protected storage for your
archive and a balance between protection
and performance for your Shared File System.
And for Scratch you might want to have just
the fastest possible storage available.
With Xsan and affinities, you're able to
take a single volume and divide it up so
that the most appropriate storage is
used for the most appropriate purpose.
It is a very powerful feature of Xsan that
you don't get with those other choices.
Xsan also makes it very easy to grow your file system.
Over time your archive's going to grow
and you're going to need more space.
With Xsan, you can add another RAID chassis to
your rack and now you've grown your file system.
You have more storage available for
that growing archive of content.
And finally, video workgroups.
If you're already using Final Cut Studio and
you're in a larger production environment,
chances are you already have an Xsan deployed.
Integrating that video workgroup with Podcast
Producer is very easy with an Xsan environment.
So this Xsan is ideal if you have both a video
workgroup, production workgroup like BBC,
as well as the need to deploy a Podcast Producer.
Let's take a look at how you would provision storage,
one example of how you might provision
your storage for Podcast Producer.
Promise has an E class chassis.
This is the RAID chassis with Fibre Channel controllers.
And to that, you can add a JBOD or Just a Bunch of Disks
chassis that increases your performance and capacity.
So in this example we're going to use a two drive
LUN, a RAID 1 LUN, a protected LUN for metadata,
that's very important, metadata is critical.
We're also going to set up for 6 drive LUNs.
These RAID 5 LUNs are going to
be put together into an affinity
to give us the best possible balance
between performance and protection.
Again, we're going to add some drives as
hot spares, that way if a drive fails,
nobody has to go in and replace the drive.
The RAID will automatically build
itself-- rebuild itself if a drive fails.
And finally, we have these 3 remaining drives and we're
going to set those drives up for our Scratch area.
And we might want to deploy them like North
Carolina State did and set up a Development
and Test System that's tied into
the SAN and that's its playground.
That's the area that that production--
that test system is going to use.
That makes it really easy to move from a test
environment to deployment all in the same SAN.
And again, we have scripts that configure the E and J
class chassis in exactly this way available on our site.
>> So after you've configured these
RAIDs, it's very easy to set up Xsan.
You can do it during server installation or
with Xsan admin and there's a specific option
that optimizes Xsan for Podcast Producer.
That's all done from the graph, from the GUI, and it's
a great way to get started with your Xsan configuration.
So in summary, the Shared File System for Podcast Producer
should be set up to scale to fit your requirements.
If you're a small business, the all-in-one
might be the best solution for you.
If you're a small department in a school
or a K12 school that has a small number
of podcast, all-in-one is a great way to start
And it's easy again to move from
all-in-one to an NFS configuration.
It's all set up for you.
All you have to do is bind additional servers to
the directory and they are available as Xgrid nodes.
And then finally for Xsan, if you want the most scalable,
highest performance and a highly available system
for mission critical Podcast Producer
deployment, then Xsan is your best choice.
There is an Xsan session following this session
that's going to go into much more detail
on the nuts and bolts of configuring Xsan.
So if you're the person that's going to be responsible
for the Shared File System, you might want to check
that session out, either today or later online.
The next component of your deployment is Xgrid.
So Xgrid again is the brain of Podcast Producer.
It's what takes these jobs in as workflows and then
distributes those workflow tasks to these computing nodes.
The complexity of your workflow is the primary driver
that determines what you need in terms of a grid.
So I did a little stream recording of this incredible new
tool that these gentlemen created for us, Podcast Composer.
So Podcast Composer is this fabulous new tool that
allows us to do things like import multiple videos.
We can do dual source imports.
We have 2 sources of video now coming in that we want to
put together into, say, a picture and a picture composition.
At the edit stage, we can add intro videos with
transitions to titles and have picture in a picture
and automatic detection and chapter generation.
And then we can export that content into multiple formats,
for iPod, for IO or Apple TV and we can publish it
out to the wiki, to the Podcast Library, to Final Cut
Server, transfer it over to some other server for archive
and then notify our target clients with
iChat, email or some other service.
So what we're able to do now is build a very
complex workflow with very little effort.
That's incredible, and thank you
very much for that capability.
[Applause] So that is really great.
However, this is complicated stuff
that they're doing and it has an impact
on your processor requirements,
memory requirements, et cetera.
So that needs to be factored in when you're
designing your Podcast Producer infrastructure.
In Podcast Producer, tasks in a workflow
that run in parallel are distributed
across your grid in a round robin fashion.
So these jobs are distributed round
robin across these grid notes.
It's important to understand when you're
deploying that the fastest CPUs are selected first.
So if you have a heterogenous grid, the fastest
machines are going to be filled up first
with Podcast Producer tasks before those
lower performance servers are ever accessed.
So just an important factor when
you're deploying your grid to consider.
As I mentioned before, if you want to take advantage
of the high availability features that are new
with Snow Leopards, you need to have Xsan.
So Xsan, again, is high availability on
the cluster file system and it extends now
to the Xgrid controller as well as Podcast Producer.
So if you have a mission critical deployment as
many of our larger customers in higher education do,
this is a factor that you need to consider
when you're architecting your deployment.
So when you're trying to figure what you need in terms of
your media and processing workflow, these are some pointers.
First, create the typical workflows
that you're going to use.
Review them with your creative staff, make sure you're
building the workflows that you're actually going to deploy.
And then, submit the type of content
you're actually going to use.
You can't take a one-minute video and test your grid
if you're going to be deploying 60-minute lectures.
Test it with those 60-minute lectures.
Use the type of content you're actually
going to be using and test for peak load.
Typically in education, you see peaks and troughs in
terms of utilization, so you want to test for the peaks,
so that when you're deploying, you're
successful when the system is loaded.
So test for the peak load and that's also
is for your consumption of content as well.
So try to anticipate those peak loads-- again for example in
education, in my market, at the end of the semester that's
when all the students start downloading all
the podcast because they're trying to get ready
for exams, you need to be ready for that.
During these tasks monitor your
disk CPU and network utilization.
There are great UNIX tools to do this.
If you went to Stephen Parker's session, he's got some
great stuff, and built in the server admin we have tools
that allow you to monitor this utilization.
Collect and analyze your test data during
this process and make adjustments to your grid
in your architecture based on your analysis.
And then when you go into production,
continue to monitor this performance data.
It's really important that you watch the system
and make sure it's behaving as expected over time.
So this is really basic stuff that IT already understands.
But the great thing about Xgrid and Xsan is that
it's really easy to scale this infrastructure.
Over time if your media processing needs grow with
Xgrid, you just put another machine in the rack,
attach it to the Shared File System,
bind it to the directory,
and now you have more processing capability available.
Same thing with Xsan, you need more
storage, put more storage in the rack,
it's now available for additional capacity
in terms of your Shared File System.
Some more pointers on the processing nodes.
First of all, I mentioned RAM considerations.
When you're testing those workflows, use TOP
[phonetic], make sure you're not paging the disk
because obviously that's going to impact your performance.
You want all your loaded grid to
actually be able to work in RAM.
For example, we have this great new Xserves.
They had 16 virtual cores.
Each one of those cores can execute
one of these Podcast Producer task,
so one server can do 16 things at a time, it's great.
There are RAM considerations with that.
A 3-gig Xserve is probably not a good choice.
You're going to want more memory and in
your test, you'll be able to determine that.
So take those workflows that you're actually
going to use and execute them on your grid
and you'll know what the memory
footprint you need to have is.
For NFS, we recommend that if you're under 8 nodes,
processing nodes, NFS works really, really well.
However, if you go over 8 nodes, then
the protocol and the network start to get
in the way and they become the bottleneck.
So Xsan is really a better choice
for a larger scale deployment.
Xsan again, in addition to providing the
scalability, also provides high availability.
So it's the best combination for
scalability, high availability and performance.
And if you have a video production workgroup
you want to integrate with Podcast Producer,
Xsan is just the natural choice for that as well.
So again in summary, the media processing and
encoding part of Podcast Producer we have to take
in account the complexity of the
workflows built with Podcast Composer.
What do they mean in terms of your processing needs?
Take into account the round robin task distribution.
How those tasks are going to be distributed on your
grid and that determines how you're going to architect
that grid, fastest CPUs again being utilized first.
Make the best Shared File System that match for your Xgrid.
If you have-- if you plan to have a lot of Xgrid
nodes, don't plan on using NFS because the protocol,
the network are going to be the bottleneck.
And I always encourage my customers to
deploy a development and test server.
In a mission critical environment, you want to have the
ability to test workflows, to test new versions of software,
to load test your environment, and this development and
test server gives you the platform you need to do that.
And so it's something that I always recommend my customers,
especially deploying larger deployments, to consider.
So that's my piece of the presentation and next, again,
I'm going to turn this over to these 2
extremely talented engineers that are part
of a much bigger talented engineering
team to talk about the Podcast Library.
[ Applause ]
>> Thanks George.
George has been setting up Podcast Producer all over the
country, and really if you have any questions about how
to deploy Podcast Producer, he'll
be in the Lab this afternoon.
You come talk to him.
So for the second part of the presentation,
we're going to start looking at the Library.
The Podcast Library is a brand new feature in Snow Leopard
and we really think it's going to
be very powerful for a lot of you.
So let's take a step back and look at this.
With Podcast Producer, you're going
to be producing a lot of content.
And what we wanted to do is have
a way to make it very easy for you
to integrate publishing this content for your organization.
So you may already have a particular web page that you'll
be showing your content through, maybe a web portal
or you may be using an external service
that's going to publish the content.
Well now with the Podcast Library, you can have a
central repository for all of your content that all
of these external services or web pages can reflect.
So the content will live and will
be served up by the Podcast Library.
And these external services or web pages will be able--
allow you to create a custom front-end for your content.
So as I said, the Podcast Library is a central repository,
we're keeping the content and the
metadata in the same place.
But we're not just serving up the content in any old way.
We've created this new feature, what we call smart feeds.
So think of smart feeds as what you're used to in the
finder with smart folders, or smart playlist in iTunes.
You can create a query and all-- any content that
falls in that query, in response to that query,
will be served up in this particular feed.
For example, you could have let's say a user feed.
So we say Professor A and all of the
content that Professor A has ever submitted
to the Podcast Producer system would show up in his feed.
And we're leveraging industry standards, like
Atom and RSS which makes it very easy for you
to customize your web front-end for the Podcast
Library and show the content through your web portal.
But it also makes it very easy as I said earlier to
integrate with external services, because there are a lot
of services out there that already
know how to read RSS or Atom.
And they can basically ingest this Atom or RSS
and show it in a way that they're best capable of.
We also create a lot of feeds for you automatically
so that you don't have to worry about setting them up.
For example, when you install a workflow, we'll
automatically create a feed for that workflow.
When a new user submits contents to the Podcast Producer
system, we automatically create a feed for that user.
And we'll be going over this in the demo in a few minutes.
But we didn't just stop there.
We've made it fully customizable.
So you can write your own queries
in a very [inaudible]-like syntax
to create your own custom feeds if
you have a very particular need.
And we've also set up access controls so
you can set up access controls on the--
on the different feeds, and we'll
talk about that in the last part.
So just to come back and just to kind of make
sure we're on the same page about smart feeds,
I've just got a little animation
here to show you how this works.
So here we've set up 2 smart feeds.
The first smart feed is going to serve up all of
the content that is tagged with the Physics keyword.
The second is going to serve up all the content that
was ever published or submitted by Professor Einstein.
So coming through our workflow here, we've got--
we have a submission from Physics 101 Of course,
Einstein doesn't teach Physics 101
so that just goes into Physics feed.
The same is true for Physics 102, and
it's going to show up in the Physics feed.
But for Physics 523, Intro to Relativity, well,
Einstein actually does teach that so that's--
that content is actually going to show up in both feeds.
So now you really see it, and it's really just
like what you would expect when you're used
to using smart folders and smart playlist in iTunes.
One other thing that I'd like to point out
is that we're really moving towards Atom.
We really think Atom is the future
for the syndication model.
And one of the first reason is that Atom allows
us to have multiple enclosures per episode.
So for those of you who are familiar with RSS, you know
that if you do-- with respect to the RSS specification,
if you want to have multiple formats, if you want
to podcast your content and distribute your content
in multiple formats, you have to maintain 3 different feeds.
So in this example, let's say I
want to have an iPod version,
I want to distribute an audio only
version, and an Apple TV version.
I need to maintain 3 different RSS feeds.
Well with Atom, there is direct support in the specification
to have multiple enclosures for a single episode.
So I can now have the audio only, the
iPod video, and the Apple TV version
in one episode in my Atom spec, in my Atom feed.
And this is going to simplify it because now you
only have one feed that you have to maintain.
Another interesting point with Atom is it provides a way
for us to extend the protocol right in the specification.
We can extend Atom without breaking the
specification by declaring our own name space
and we can provide you with even more information.
So when you start playing with the Podcast Library and
we'll show this to you in the demo, we'll we've extended it
to provide you with even more metadata than was actually--
than initially supported by the Atom spec. So we can give
you information about the frame rate, for the duration,
all types of different information that you
may choose to use or you can completely ignore.
And if you want to, you could even extend Atom for your use
case, maybe you have some particular metadata that you would
like to put into the Atom spec, well you can do that.
So at this time, I'm going to bring up
Eric and he's going to bring you and browse
through the library and show you what it looks like.
>> Thank you Kjell.
[Applause] Good morning.
The Podcast Library is the new delivery masterpiece of
Podcast Producer and it makes the out of the box publishing
and consuming very simple, and I'd
like to demonstrate that to you.
So this is the Podcast Library root catalog.
This is the highest level of the catalog.
By default, we've created for you a set of
different catalogs for the user, for the workflows,
and some others we're going to address in a minute.
And in these catalogs, you have all the feeds.
For example in these feeds, you
have all the different episodes,
and again in these episodes you have all the attachments.
One of the reason we are using Atom now is for getting this
new capability of adding multiple attachments per episodes
but also as Kjell explained, they have
also the ability to extend it very easily
by having metadata and all the additional informations.
It's also super easy to use other tools such as iTunes
and other aggregators to get access to these Atom Feeds.
So for instance if I subscribe in iTunes, it will
automatically load the Atom feed and get some of the content
for me and then every time the Library updates these
feeds then tools such as iTunes are going to get notified
and [inaudible] these feeds automatically for
me and then synchronize with my old devices.
We're creating for you a lot of different
feeds, so you don't need an out of the box,
you don't need to take care about that by yourself.
We create a user feed for every time you are submitting
a new content from Podcast Capture, so if you're--
for the first time you're using the Podcast
Capture, we're going to create a user feed for you.
Also when you install your workflow with Podcast composer,
we're going to create a workflow feed automatically
so then you'll have feeds you could share
with your students or with your colleagues.
We're going to address the keyword feed,
which is a great addition in Podcast Composer.
You could actually decide when creating a workflow to
add keywords for every single content going to be run
through this workflow and the then
the content is going to appear
in those different keywords feeds for you automatically.
You can also generate history feeds so that
you can look at all the content produced today
or yesterday or the couple of weeks before.
And finally, there is a pool of feeds here where you
can create your own custom feeds, your own smart feeds.
So let me demonstrate that and create a new user first.
[ Pause ]
>> Really?
>> OK one more time.
No.
[ Pause ]
>> So I've just created a nice user
[laughter] from our group manager.
And after creating this user, automatically
it's going to appear in these user feeds.
Now let's create a workflow.
Since I trust Podcast Composer
[laughter] I'm going to use this tool.
>> So let me do my first workflow, create a montage
workflow, where I'm going to submit some content to it.
I don't want to do any specific edition here but I
still want to generate a couple of different formats,
and publish all the content in the Library.
So here is the way you can set some keywords.
And the cool point about this is every single
keyword you're going to add here are going to be set
to the different generating medias that's
going to be produced by this workflow.
And as you may have seen before, we do
already have some keywords feed here.
So for example, if I like this workflow to publish
the resulting media to the WWDC and also some--
to some additional things like to create a new
keyword, then these keywords are going to be used
to create additional feeds that do not exist.
So if I do that, I need you to try it
with me to deploy it to the server,
if the server wants to work using maybe my account.
No, OK. So the server does not want me install
anything or use my credentials, sorry for that.
So-- so once the workflow is installed, Podcast
Library system does generate the feeds automatically
and the feeds are going to appear
in the workflow feed lists here.
Then it's going to look at all the existing
keywords feeds and create additional ones.
And if I do then a recording with the new user I've just
created as you've seen and actually uses my new workflow,
the content is going to be published at
the new user feed, to the workflow feed,
and to those 2 different keywords,
those 2 different keywords feeds.
One thing I would like to show you is if I tag
this very well and curl it through the terminal,
so this is an XML file using the Atom specification.
This path is an actually an episode and that displays all
the different information about the link to these episodes.
But let me just show you instead
of a catalog, some content here.
So this one has great content.
This is a leaf of the library, this is the feed itself.
So in this one, if I take-- if I take the
entry here, you see that you have a lot
of information just for one single episode.
But the very interesting parts are the attachments.
So now we've developed attachments based on the workflow
different formats and for these different attachments,
we also provide for you automatically
a set of different metadata.
So if you want to build a UI on top of that or
actually sync that with any of your services,
you may be able to use all these
informations to do something nice with it,
like for example the video cut
that we are using for this format.
Or the frame rates, or even some old
informations about the different tracks available,
do you have any closed caption
tracks or video tracks, audio tracks.
And we also have this new thing called PCP formats that
tells you if this content is actually low complexity element
or is this SD or HD so then you can know if this is
actually a content you could use with the iPhone or the iPod
or with your Apple TV or with your desktop platform.
And finally, all the content that is produced
is actually installed on the system--
on the file system, it's not set in the database.
It's not actually put in any opaque
structure on the Podcast Library server.
It's actually installed on the file system
and read by our systems and then cached.
So at anytime you could actually look at it
and remove or add any additional element.
So it's in cache library Podcast
Producer shared content by default.
So let me just-- so in this place, if I go and look at
the content here organized by years, month, and date,
if you look at the content here I've created.
You see that every time you submit a content through Podcast
Capture, using a workflow, we're going to create a bundle.
And in that bundle, we're going to install all the
different original files that have been submitted.
We're going also to put all the different metadata coming
from the Podcast Capture application including all the
metadata that we are going to generate server side for you
so we have a lot of information here
that's going to be automatically added.
And finally in the publish folder, we're going to
add all the different files that has been produced.
So in that particular one, I've just submitted a
PDF file and this was my original file, out of this,
thanks to the montage workflow,
we've created different videos.
So we have this editing master, high quality master, but
also these different formats that you've decided to create
for the iPod version, for example, including the
poster image so then we can have a nice image
in your feeds for presenting the content.
Thank you.
[ Applause ]
>> Thanks Eric.
So what you've seen is we've been talking about feeds.
And what we've really-- we really think is powerful is
we're going to provide you with Atom feeds and RSS feeds.
And by doing this, we're providing you with
industry standards that you can now leverage
to integrate with your own web pages or portals.
So it's already as you saw in the demo, it
already works with aggregators like iTunes
or any other Atom-aware or RSS-aware aggregator out there.
You also have web applications that know how
to-- that provide a specific UI for Atom or RSS.
But where this really becomes powerful is if you have
a particular need, if you need to present your content
in a specific way, well you know
how, it's very easy to do so.
You can write tailored applications or web-based
applications that can now just serve as a front-end
to the Podcast Library so you can provide
your customers with the best experience
to consume the content that resides in the Podcast Library.
By doing this, we are providing you with a service and we're
making it very easy for the Podcast Producer system to serve
up the content that you've been producing, but we allow
you to have the flexibility of deciding how you want
to best show this to your end customers
and to your audience.
And there's also existing services out there
that already know how to ingest RSS or Atom.
So that makes integrating with them very easy as well.
And well we work with out own teams
at Apple to make sure that this--
we followed up on the story, and we've been working
very tightly with the iTunes U team to make sure
that the integration with iTunes
U is as powerful as possible.
And what we've done is we've made it extremely easy for
you now to tie in your Podcast Library feeds with iTunes U.
So for those of you who know iTunes U, before you had to
go in there and create a course page and then populate it
with all the metadata like the title, the description.
You've provide it with maybe a logo and
then you would upload all the content
that you wanted to have on your iTunes U site.
What I'm really happy to say is when you have Snow Leopard
with the Podcast Library, you won't have to do that anymore.
You'll create what we call a feed course page and then all
you have to do is copy the URL from your Podcast Library,
give that to iTunes, iTunes U, sorry, and iTunes U
will build the course page for you automatically.
What this means is we're going to get the title information.
We're going to get, iTunes U is going to
get the title information, the description,
the logo image from the feed and all of the content.
ITunes U is going to download everything
and it's going to set up a page for you.
You won't have to go in there and
manually upload all the content yourself.
[ Applause ]
>> But even better than that, with Atom, we have
multiple enclosures, so iTunes U understands this
and they will automatically create a tab
per format so that your user can go in
and see right away what format they want.
If they want the Apple TV format, they can just click on
the Apple TV tab and they will have that content there.
So the iTunes U is really going to be a great-- is going
to have a great ingestion story for the Podcast Library
and we really think the Podcast Library is going to be
the easiest way for you to get your content to iTunes U.
So let's look at-- look at customizing your feeds.
We've talked about the Podcast Library and showed you
how we create a lot of the feeds for you automatically.
But we understand that you're probably
going to have some custom needs
and you're going to want to set up your feeds yourself.
So you saw it with Eric.
We'll automatically create user feeds for
you but we create the user feed for you
when the user submits for the first time.
But we also have a way for you to very easily
create a user feed before that user is ever logged
into Podcast Composer, or Podcast Capture, sorry.
>> So we have in the podcast command line
tool, there is now a command called addfeed
and if you just tell it the short name
that you want to create the feed for,
it automatically knows to create a
user feed and it will do it for you.
Same thing with keyword feeds, you
just held the keyword you wanted to use
and it will automatically create a keyword feed for you.
But if you want to get fancy and you want to
do some more interesting things with the feeds
and come up with some custom queries,
we've made that very easy for you to.
All you need to specify is the name for
the feed, give it a short description,
and you can specify the query with an SQL-like syntax.
So here in this example you can see that this
wwdc09 feed is going to serve up all the content
where the episode is title, where the
episode title contains the wwdc09 string.
And we have a lot of different metadata that you can query
so you're going to be able to create really complex queries
if you want or you have a custom need for it.
You can query information like the title, summary, keywords.
But there's also information about the
author, so the one who submitted the content,
or when the content was actually
submitted with some date information.
And to show that, Eric can come back up on
stage and he's going to show you how easy it is.
>> Thank you.
So I've just created a custom feed to test
it and I've created a feed that actually look
at all the content that Kjell and I have created so far.
So this was a really simple query to look at all the
content in the Library looking at all the metadata
and querying all these properties to actually
then generate a feed out of all these episodes.
So this is the result of the feed
and we have about 26 elements.
But I'd like to create one additional feed that actually
restrict that query and look at all the content that Kjell
and I have created that also contains the keywords wwdc09.
So for that, I'm using the addfeed command line podcast--
addfeed with specific query that is looking for the
authorship named Eric or the authorship named Kjell
and I'm looking for all the keywords and I have
particularly want at the wwdc09 query-- keyword.
So if I install this and if I go back and
refresh my custom feeds, now I have my feed 2,
and this feed 2 has all these different
episodes that respond to the query,
and I can say that I have about 14 episodes there.
But I even want to restrict that a bit more and what
I'm going to do is actually to look for all the content
that we've created so far using
this keyword but also restrict
to only the content we have created
for this wwdc starting on Monday.
So I'm going to add the date, actually filter
here, and just make sure it starts on the 8th.
And by adding this query to the server, now
I have a third feed with only 10 elements
and these are all the different episodes we have
created in all our different presentations this week.
Thank you.
>> So now you've seen how we've made
it so you can create really easy feeds
by just installing Podcast Producer workflows and it
will take care of creating a lot of the feeds for you,
and then if you really want to customize
this, you can create your own feeds.
So now let's talk about controlling access.
Of course we use Open Directory to authenticate
the different users and we have multiple ways.
We support different authentication types.
So of course we have Kerberos, Digest, and basic auth.
The one thing to understand about the Podcast
Library is we control the access through the feeds.
So you can think about this as maybe like
the dinner sitting on the kitchen table,
well if I can get into the kitchen I will be able to
eat that dinner and it's the same thing with the feeds.
I have access to content.
I can have access to any content
that I can access through any feed.
So I've access to the feed, I can then access the content.
So we're not setting access controls
on the content, but just on the feeds.
So just think of them as gateways to your content.
And we have kind of 3 different modes of controlling access.
By default and what you've seen in all
of the demos, there is no access control.
It's just wide open, this is what we called world access.
But maybe you want to restrict access to the entire
Podcast Library to a particular group of users or groups.
We've made this very easy for you.
And those of you who are already familiar
with server admin, all you have to do is set
up a service access control list
for the Podcast Producer service.
So if you restrict the SACL for Podcast Producer,
this also applies to the Podcast Library.
So, only users who have access to the Podcast Producer
service will have access to the Podcast Library.
So it makes it very easy for you to lock down
access to your library to user, group of users.
But then we also have what we call lock down mode.
And by turning on lock down mode, what you're doing
is you're enabling access controls for all the feeds.
And whenever we create a feed, we
create it with an access control list.
And by default, that access control list is
empty so that means that nobody has access to it
if you turn on access controls for feeds.
There's one exception and that's for the user feeds.
Well when we create a user feed, we make sure that
that user has-- is on the access control list,
so that they always have access to
the content that they have submitted.
And if you're an administrator, well that bypasses
everything because you have access to see the whole system.
So you can have full access to all
of the feeds and all of the content.
The idea behind lock down is that you have to
give explicit permission to a particular user
or groups for them to have access to a particular feed.
So this provides a very granular
way of setting access controls.
We've seen that you can have it world access or you can
lock down the whole systems to a particular user or groups,
but we've also have-- have a way
of getting very granular about it.
I'm going to walk you through that now.
But before, we're talking about feeds here.
But feeds are just another resource
type for Podcast Producer.
Cameras, workflows, and feeds are all
resources that you can set access controls on.
And for the Podcast Producer system, this access-- the whole
access control model is the same for all 3 resource types.
So as I said, by default for the
feeds, everything is world accessible.
But if you set a SACL for the Podcast
Producer system, you're basically locking
down the whole Podcast Producer system for
whoever is in that service access control list.
But you can also set access controls
for particular resource types.
So, not for the resource, but the resource types.
So this means that I can say that feeds are access-- are
world accessible which is by default, but that for cameras
and workflows, users have to be logged in and that they're--
we're going to enforce access controls
for those 2 resource types.
But then of course you have multiple
instances of all of these resources.
And we've also made it so that you can set
access controls on each individual resource.
So we think we have a really granular
solution that will fit all of your needs
and that you can decide what type
of access controls you want to set.
And I'm just going to walk you through the decision
graph that happens on the Podcast Producer systems
so you can understand how we decide and what
kind of enforcement we're doing to detect
if the user has access to a particular resource or not.
So when a user comes in, the first thing
that Podcast Producer system is going
to check is there a SACL enabled
for the Podcast Producer system.
If there is and the user isn't
in the SACL, we deny an access.
If there is-- and there, then we'll just continue our graph.
So the second question we're gong to ask is is there a
resource-- is there an ACL enabled for that resource type.
Are we enforcing access controls for this
particular resource that they're trying to--
the resource type that they're trying to access.
So are we enforcing access controls for feeds, for example.
If we're not, then we can grant them access.
If we are, we're going to ask if
that particular user has access
to this particular resource that they're trying to access.
I think the easiest way to show you
this is to show you in demo again.
So Eric is going to walk you through and show you how
we can set the access controls for particular feed.
>> OK. So anyone could use the Library by default.
If you want to restrict the usage of the Library
for everyone, which means to all the user you have
in your phone directory system, you just have to
go and start your Server Admin, pick the server,
go in Access and select the Podcast Producer service here.
And by adding users or by adding groups,
you're going to restrict the usage
of this service to some of the users you actually want.
>> For example here, if you would like to open
it to everyone that's in your phone directory,
you just had everyone a group and automatically this
is going to restrict your Library to all your users.
If you'd like to even go further and lock down your
system by specifying a group of users or specific groups
for specific feeds, you'll have to
enable ACLs at the whole library level.
So for that, we have 3 command lines.
The first command line is it gives you the ability to
actually enable the ACLs for the lock down strategy
on all the Library, and this is going
to enable the lock down for the feeds.
Once you have them that, by default, all the feeds
are going to be restricted to for the administrator
and only the user feeds are going to
be useful, are going to be accessible
by the user itself as well as the administrator.
And then, so you could look at all the different
ACLs per feed by using the show ACL command line,
and you can get the resource UID also by using a list
feeds or just by browsing the Library as an administrator,
you'll be able to figure out about all
the different UID in the URL directly.
And if you'd like to open some feeds such as this one, from
Nathan, if you'd like to open this feed to a specific user
or for-- to a specific group then we have this add access
property for the pcast command line that will allow you
to add a specific access to a specific
user for a specific resource.
So for example, if I just copy/paste this here and
execute this command line, then the user, Eric,
will have access to this particular field automatically.
Thank you.
>> So in summation, so what you learned from George's
part of the presentation is that you need to plan ahead.
There's a lot of questions that you need to ask yourself
about deploying Podcast Producer before you
even start setting up your first server.
There's a lot of infrastructure.
You need to determine what type of
file system you're going to use,
how big and how many Podcast you
think you're going to be creating.
How big of an Xgrid do you need.
Basically, you're going to have to be
able to run a lot of tests to make sure
that you have a general understanding
of what you're going to be producing.
And now with the Podcast Library, we've made it extremely
easy for you to integrate with your existing web environment
so that you can decide how you best want to show
your content to your audience and to your end users.
Make sure that this is really customizable but you can
create your own feeds and you can specify your own queries
so that you can have the best feeds and the
most intelligent feeds that fit your needs.
And we have a very granular access control system
so that you can decide who has access and make sure
that only the right people can
see the Podcast and your content.
So for related sessions, so most of these have actually
already happened, and it's mostly if you're watching this
in video, there are a lot of sessions this week.
But what I really think is going to be a lot of fun is the
next session that's going to be right here in this room.
We're going to be talking about the
technologies that empower podcast producers.
I really encourage you to stay for that one.
Also if you have any questions, if you-- about the
library or anything else we've shown you this week,
we'll be down in the IT lab starting at noon and
we'll be happy to answer any of your questions.
There were a lot of-- there are already a lot of
support resources out there for your deployments,
so I'm going to leave this slide up and make sure you guys
can get the different URLs for what you're interested in.
And there are really a lot of resources out there
already, and I really encourage you to take a look
at the different K-based articles out there.